DOCSUP-13334: Recompression TTL and Settings (#27989)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md

    -   `min_merge_bytes_to_use_direct_io` — The minimum data volume for merge operation that is required for using direct I/O access to the storage disk. When merging data parts, ClickHouse calculates the total storage volume of all the data to be merged. If the volume exceeds `min_merge_bytes_to_use_direct_io` bytes, ClickHouse reads and writes the data to the storage disk using the direct I/O interface (`O_DIRECT` option). If `min_merge_bytes_to_use_direct_io = 0`, then direct I/O is disabled. Default value: `10 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024` bytes.
        <a name="mergetree_setting-merge_with_ttl_timeout"></a>
    -   `merge_with_ttl_timeout` — Minimum delay in seconds before repeating a merge with delete TTL. Default value: `4*3600` seconds.
    -   `merge_with_recompression_ttl_timeout` — Minimum delay in seconds before repeating a merge with recompression TTL. Default value: `4*3600` seconds.    

>     -   `try_fetch_recompressed_part_timeout` — Recompression works slowly in most cases, so ClickHouse doesn't start merge with recompression until this timeout (set in seconds) and tries to fetch recompressed part from replica which assigned this merge with recompression. Default value: `7200` seconds.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   `try_fetch_recompressed_part_timeout` — Timeout (in seconds) before starting merge with recompression. During this time ClickHouse tries to fetch recompressed part from replica which assigned this merge with recompression. This setting is useful because recompression works slowly in most cases. Default value: `7200` seconds.    
```

>     -   `try_fetch_recompressed_part_timeout` — Timeout (in seconds) before starting merge with recompression. During this time ClickHouse tries to fetch recompressed part from replica which assigned this merge with recompression. This setting is useful because recompression works slowly in most cases. Default value: `7200` seconds.    

Author: ```suggestion
    -   `try_fetch_recompressed_part_timeout` — Timeout (in seconds) before starting merge with recompression. During this time ClickHouse tries to fetch recompressed part from replica which assigned this merge with recompression. Default value: `7200` seconds.    
```

Determines the lifetime of values.

> The `TTL` clause can be set for the whole table and for each individual column. Table-level `TTL` can also specify the logic of automatic move of data between disks and volumes, or recompression of parts where all the data has been expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TTL` clause can be set for the whole table and for each individual column. Table-level `TTL` can also specify the logic of automatic moving of data between disks and volumes, or recompression of parts where all the data has been expired.
```

> The `TTL` clause can be set for the whole table and for each individual column. Table-level `TTL` can also specify the logic of automatic moving of data between disks and volumes, or recompression of parts where all the data has been expired.

Author: ```suggestion
The `TTL` clause can be set for the whole table and for each individual column. Table-level `TTL` can also specify the logic of automatic moving data between disks and volumes, or recompressing parts where all the data has been expired.
```

    c String TTL d + INTERVAL 1 MONTH;
```

Recompress separate columns: 

```sql

> ALTER TABLE ... MODIFY COLUMN blob_content String RECOMPRESS event_date + INTERVAL 1 WEEK LZHC

Author: @alesapin Sorry, that was accidently left from the draft. Removed that.

TTL d + INTERVAL 1 MONTH GROUP BY k1, k2 SET x = max(x), y = min(y);
```

### Removing Expired Data {#mergetree-removing-expired-data}

Data with an expired `TTL` is removed when ClickHouse merges data parts.

> When ClickHouse sees that data is expired, it performs an off-schedule merge. To control the frequency of such merges, you can set `merge_with_ttl_timeout`. If the value is too low, it will perform many off-schedule merges that may consume a lot of resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When ClickHouse detects that data is expired, it performs an off-schedule merge. To control the frequency of such merges, you can set `merge_with_ttl_timeout`. If the value is too low, it will perform many off-schedule merges that may consume a lot of resources.
```
